---
id: 2026-05-26
aliases: []
tags:
  - daily-notes
---

## Notes from raghav

How many of you have handled microscopy data?
--> Of that group, How many of you have used Fiji?

- You just learned about the field of light sheet microscopy.
- Here we're going to take explore data collected on the IsoView light-sheet system.
- As far as data is concerned, the most important facet of this system is that we have 4 cameras.
- Each camera acquires images along a different perspective/orientation. 

Fig 1/2: 4 cameras, sample mounted suspended

- "Maximizing physical coverage of the specimen by capturing multiple views of the same specimen"
- sample goes in this chamber that is in the center.

File Explorer

- Each file is a single timepoint, for a single camera
- Each file is a 3D stack, we will see what this looks like
- Image1: 1 to 2 hr imaging is standard

GUI 1: 

- now i have data along view 00 and 90", now i need to register and fuse them.
- For that, there is an open source tool available in fiji, its called bigstitcher

-> touch on the activity of the calcium indicator

-> Dust pinhole was a great start

Did a good job bringing everything together, confocal + widefield + light sheet and were they all fit together
- Too deep into the weeds of the numerical aperature and formulas I think
- Talking about confocal vs wide vs lsm in terms of anisotropy, you threw around the terms anisotropic and isotropic a lot, and numerical aperature,

I think if someone didn't remember "anisotropy" , they would be lost for a good 2-3 minutes

