---
id: 2026-02-04
aliases: []
tags:
  - daily-notes
---

## Notes

### Python's clusterPT is missing:

1. SPM00 subfolder

MATLAB: outputFolder/SPM00/TM000000/ 
Python: outputFolder/TM000000/

This was done in the clusterPT_RC.m script, not processTimepoint.m, which tells me its configurable, so skipped for now

2. Cropping during load

MATLAB: Uses multibandread with range parameters to crop during file read (lines 409-413)

{'Band', 'Range', [startsFront(c) + 1, 1, startsFront(c) + depths(c)]},
{'Column', 'Range', [startsLeft(c) + 1, 1, startsLeft(c) + widths(c)]},
{'Row', 'Range', [startsTop(c) + 1, 1, startsTop(c) + heights(c)]}

Python loads full volume and crops afterwards. Cropping is also not yet tested thoroughly.

3. Background files

MATLAB: Rotates and copies Background_*.tif files to output folder (lines 201-215)
Python: Only reads background values, doesn't copy/rotate background files to output

I had originally stored the background files in the .zarr store when working with `.zarr`. 
Being we may not want to carry along the background files, as we're eventually combining clusterPT/MF, I didn't worry about this yet  as I was getting hung-up in the rotate phase.

4. XML files

MATLAB copies the XML file to the clusterPT output directory. 
These should probably be saved in the TIFF/KLB/Zarr metadata instead, so similar reason as above.

5. Configuration.mat file

This file is saved in the MATLAB pipeline but never read again. So I didn't implement it yet. May be useful for debugging / tracking, but adding files to keep track of is not optimal.

6. Flat file structure

For the raw data, Python only supports a flat file structure e.g. folder/file1.stack, folder/file2.stack, ... etc 

### Isoview metadata capture (gui)

### Stack type

```python
raw: .stack files (SPC00_TM00000_ANG000_CM0_CHN01_PH0.stack)
pt (process_timepoint): SPM00_TM000000_CM00_CHN01.zarr (single camera, single channel)
mf (multi-fuse cameras): SPM00_TM000000_CM00_CM01_CHN01.zarr (fused cameras, single channel)
mfc (multi-fuse channels): SPM00_TM000000_CHN00_CHN01.zarr or similar (fused everything)
```

We should append a "stage" or "step"/"processing-step" metadata value that notes which steps have been run. 
ProcessTimepoint
MultiFuse-Cameras
MultiFuse-Channels
Deconvolution
... etc

